---
layout: blog
title:  "KeePassXC 2.7.1 released"
date:   2022-04-06 20:50 +0200
category: "Releases"
permalink: /:path/
author: Janek Bevendorff
teaser_image: /images/keepassxc-logo.svg
teaser_image_alt: "KeePassXC logo"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Today, we are releasing **KeePassXC 2.7.1**, the first maintenance update for the 2.7 stable series.

The release fixes multiple issues with Auto-Type, performance problems with the legacy AES-KDF, and several other minor bugs. We also improved the entry preview panel layout and paved the way for first-class Flatpak support on Linux.  Flatpak, thus far, has been a downstream third-party distribution, but with the new release, we upstreamed patches needed for building KeePassXC as a Flatpak, and it will eventually supersede Snap as our preferred Linux distribution channel. Our experience shows that Flatpak has been a more stable platform than Snap, which has had many deployment bugs over the years, so we decided to deprecate it in favour of Flatpak. If you are experiencing problems with the current Snap, we recommend you switch to one of our other two supported Linux packages or to Flatpak once we announce an official Flathub channel.

Further improvements in this release are support for spaces in tag names and other tag editing improvements, as well as new entry expiration presets for 12 and 24 hours.

<!--more-->

##### Changelog

You can view the entire list of changes on the [2.7.1 Release Page](https://github.com/keepassxreboot/keepassxc/releases/tag/2.7.1).

##### Download

The new release can be downloaded from our
[downloads page]({{ site.baseurl }}/download), our
[Ubuntu PPA](https://launchpad.net/~phoerious/+archive/ubuntu/keepassxc/),
and [Snapcraft](https://snapcraft.io/keepassxc/) (Flatpak TBA).

##### Feedback

Please report any bugs you encounter at our [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/keepassxreboot/keepassxc/issues).
We are also [available on Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/!zUxwGnFkUyycpxeHeM:matrix.org?via=matrix.org) and IRC in case you 
have any other issues with the new release (see [Contact](/team/#contact)).
